an ambitious young executive is sent to
retrieve his company's ceo from an
idyllic but mysterious wellness center
at a remote location in the swiss alps
but soon suspects that the spa's
miraculous treatments are not what they
seem welcome to movie splain in today's
video we'll be recapping a dark horror
film released in 2017 called a cure for
wellness enjoy the video in the opening
scene a man named morris is working late
in his office he starts to experience
pain in his chest morris goes to get
some water when the pain gets worse he
then suffers a heart attack and
collapses on the floor as he dies we
meet mr lockhart on a train headed to
work he is very much into his work and
seems rude and careless to others
lockhart goes to a meeting with the
higher ups hank green
hollis
and wilson they review a note sent by
the company's ceo roland pembroke who
was supposed to be away for two weeks at
a spa in the swiss alps
but has not returned since and as the
note indicates he appears to have had
some sort of breakdown green shows
lockhart in a legal document he handed
and that is now under investigation
lockhart is ordered to bring pembroke
back unless he wants to face the penalty
for his action in a flashback we see
lockhart visiting his elderly mother at
her retirement home she carries a small
music box with a ballerina that she says
is dreaming only she doesn't know that
she is in a dream lockhart's mother dies
and is cremated before his departure and
he kept the ballerina upon arriving in
switzerland lockhart takes a ride from a
taxi driver named enrico while riding up
the hill to the spa a villager chucks a
drink at the car and ricco explains that
the villagers have a bad history with
the people that reside on the hill there
is a 200 year old story of a baron who
lived on the land the spa was built he
was a racist
a fascist and he believed that his
bloodline was superior
and so he wanted to protect his
bloodline by marrying his sister after
learning she was infertile the baron
began performing experiments on the
villagers and peasants killing them
which led to them revolting and
attacking his castle
destroying most of it and burning the
baron and his sister alive dr heinrich
valmer's predecessors then purchased the
land for medical and rehabilitation use
centered on the reputed rejuvenative
properties of the holy waters and the
cavernous natural aquifer located within
the mountain itself dr valmer then
turned it into a wellness spa lockhart
arrives at the spa but visiting hours
have just ended lockhart leaves within
ricco and tells him to take him to a
hotel to make a phone call since he has
no service on the hill on the way to the
hotel
a deer runs out from the woods and into
the road and ricko hits the deer which
gets stuck in the windshield and causes
the car to swerve off the road and crash
into a ditch lockhart awakens three days
later in a room at the spa he meets dr
heinrich valmer who is the spa's
director who points out that he suffered
a broken leg as a result of the accident
valmer says he notified green about the
accident he tells lockhart to try out
the spa's treatments during his stay he
is put to stay in a room where he hears
the toilet handle rattling by itself
lockhart also takes a drink of water and
finds a parasitic creature floating in
the glass he finds pembroke in the
bathhouse where he goes for a swim
lockhart urges pembroke to go home with
him pembroke appears fine and not
interested in leaving lockhart meets
three patients frank hill ronnier and
victoria watkins watkins in particular
enjoys crossword puzzles the three of
them all seem perfectly pleased with
their treatments lockhart then meets
hannah a young woman who considers
herself a special case she and several
other patients plus valmer and other
staff members
are frequently seen taking vitamin
droplets from a blue bottle lockhart
undergoes treatment inside a water tank
the water fills up and the orderly
tending to lockhart gets distracted by a
nurse the tank then fills up with eels
causing him to panic lockhart rises and
has his breathing tube pulled off by an
eel he nearly drowns until they open the
tank and get him out just in time he
tells them about the eels but when they
look inside they see nothing there
lockhart is still convinced about what
he saw he meets mrs watkins outside
during their conversation he relays the
story of the baron to her she seems to
know the story well having read and
learnt about the history of the place
while doing crossword puzzles she is
also familiar with the rumors
surrounding the castle and the baron she
mentions that the spa was built on the
remains of his castle after the
villagers burnt it down watkins says
that the baron's sister had successfully
conceived his child and the baby was cut
out of the baron's sister's womb and
then thrown into the aquifer but it
survived lockhart gives hannah his
ballerina figurine in exchange for a
bike ride into town the two go together
and stop at a local tavern lockhart buys
himself and hannah beers and runs into
enrico who survived the crash and was
given a new car with money that the spa
gave him hannah stays to listen to music
and do a dance by herself in front of
the other patrons lockhart comes across
a barn with a mute child who is drawing
the castle fire his father peter
approaches lockhart lockhart asks
questions regarding the spa and its
history peter then goes to a cow that is
ailing and ready to die he cuts the
cow's stomach open and out spills a
stillborn calf and some meals when
lockhart rejoins hannah at the bar
lockhart gets in touch with green who
demands to know what happened with him
in pembroke lockhart mentions that
valmer called them about the accident
but green knows nothing about the
accident until lockhart just mentioned
it he orders lockhart to return to new
york with pembroke within the next 24
hours he sees a punk dancing next to her
lockhart tries to get him away from her
but the punk attacks lockhart he is
saved by valmer who arrives to pick up
lockhart and hannah that night lockhart
walks into a room where he sees hannah
in a bathtub he notices that it is full
of eels he wakes up and realizes it was
just a dream lockhart's tooth comes
loose and he pulls it out himself he
brings it to a staff member who places
it in water lockhart then goes off to
continue looking for answers he sneaks
past the staff as he goes through
several wings he comes across one room
where several patients including
pembroke are kept inside water tanks
appearing dead when lockhart tries to
return to his room he is found by the
caretaker along with valmer and another
staff member lockhart mentions the issue
with his tooth he is taken into a room
and strapped down as he has a drill
force through his front tooth lockhart
escapes the spa and heads into town to
report balmer's experiments to a police
officer valmer and his staff member
arrived to bring lockhart back lockhart
mentions the tanks and how he saw
pembroke pembroke then emerges alive and
well backing up valmer's claims that
lockhart threatened pembroke in saying
he would bring him back to new york by
force if necessary lockhart has no
choice but to return with valmer after
undergoing more treatments lockhart
starts to act and think like pembroken
that he believes he is not well and must
stay for a cure he has a moment of
clarity while writing a note to his
employers where he thinks to himself
that no man can unsee the truth
meanwhile hannah is using the pool and
has her first period eels starts
swimming near her but then they start
swimming in a perfect circle around her
lockhart then breaks a glass and uses a
shard to cut open his cast revealing
that his leg was never broken he also
finds an underground area with a pool
where dead bodies are dumped in and fed
to eels one of those dead bodies happens
to be mrs watkins lockhart encounters
the caretaker who attacks him until
lockhart causes steam to blow in his
face before he bludgeons the caretaker
to death lockhart finds hannah she is
panicked and hits lockhart in the face
as he tries to help her hannah runs and
finds balmer in a room where he the
staff and some patients are having
dinner lockhart runs in and starts to
tell everyone that valmer is a liar and
is the one responsible for everyone
being sick due to whatever is in the
water
which is responsible for making their
teeth fall out as a side effect patients
start to stand which lockhart thinks is
in support of him but they are all
actually going against him as they
slowly approach him saying that they are
unwell they all crowd around lockhart
until he passes out lockhart wakes up in
a chamber where he is immobile valmer
forces a tube down his throat and uses
the eel filled liquid to put into his
body where the eels filter out the
vitamins that valmer has all his
patients take lockhart has his teeth
fixed and appears to be changed just
like the rest of the patients stuck in a
delusion that he is unwell valmer throws
a party that night with the patients and
staff he even gives hannah a new dress
for the occasion in his room lockhart
starts to come to his senses as he
thinks about when watkins told him about
the baron he finds a portrait that was
taken a while after the fire lockhart
breaks the portrait and uses a glass to
magnify one subject in the picture
a man with bandages all over his face it
was the baron whose skin was burnt in
the fire what the portrait didn't show
was the man holding hands with a little
girl it was hannah it appears somehow
that over so many years she aged slowly
into a young woman
when she should be dead by now lockhart
then realizes that the baron is balmer
and hannah is his daughter valmer brings
hannah into a room by the transfusion
wing there he has kept a portrait of his
sister who was also hannah's mother
valmer ties hannah to the bed and
prepares to undress her lockhart then
interrupts valmer lockhart and valmer
fight wherein valmer pulls off the skin
from his face to reveal himself as the
hideously scarred baron the vitamins he
takes that he collects from the patients
by forcing eels through their system
have been keeping him and hannah alive
for well over a century 200 years ago he
discovered that the eels that live and
breed in the aquifer
are a unique species
they could live up to 300 years the
aquifer prolonged their lives but that
same water isn't healthy for human
consumption after studying them
intensely he discovered that forcing the
eels into a person's digestive system
and collecting the substance their
bodies produce
makes the youth prolonging effects of
the water viable for human use he kept
himself hannah and his loyal servants
alive and ageless for so long
so that they could one day come back and
continue the experiments on people
this time under the disguise of a
wellness spa
aimed at wealthy people hannah of course
didn't know of any of this as he kept
her in the dark for so long he intended
to force her to conceive his child
bearing what he believes to be a master
race
but all the biological tampering
the result of the vitamins had delayed
the onset of puberty for her
until now that is lockhart leads valmer
into a trap where he dropped a bunch of
fuel leading lockhart to set a fire
valmer catches fire and then sets fire
to the curtains as he tries to
extinguish himself the fire then spreads
up toward the rest of the castle
lockhart attempts to rescue hannah he
manages to get her hands free before
balmer grabs and throws him into a metal
rack
valmer kicks lockhart down a flight of
stairs to the eel pool he lifts his head
to see pembroke's lifeless body in front
of him valmer then drags him to the pool
about to feed him to the eels but hannah
takes a shovel and swings it down into
valmer's head he stumbles backwards and
falls into the pool to become meal food
lockhart and hannah escape just as the
patients and staff flee the burning
castle they take hannah's bike and ride
away on the road they are stopped by a
car green hollies and wilson step out
ordering lockhart to get in the car when
they ask about pembroke lockhart says he
is gone they tell him to get in again
but he refuses hollies asks lockhart
what's wrong with him lockhart responds
that he is feeling much better he and
hannah continue riding away into the
night with a sinister grin forming on
lockhart's face
you